Save engineers time blog (#4123)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/save-engineers-time.md

showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
categories: ["Engineering", "Product analytics"]
---

Engineers' time is valuable. Making sure it is effectively used should be a goal for both engineers and the companies they are a part of. Product Analytics can and should be helping you save time.

On top of helping understand and create better products, PostHog provides the tools to maximize and save engineers time. We do this by:

1.  Empowering non-engineers to access and utilize Product Analytics themselves.

2.  Making it easier for engineers to implement and customize Product Analytics.

To provide details about both, here are four specific ways PostHog saves engineers' time.

## Test features faster

The goal of implementing a new feature is for it to improve the product. Understanding when a feature has succeeded is key to doing this. You waste less time on low-impact features. Many analytics providers make testing difficult to implement or slow to get results. PostHog's testing tools help both engineers and non-engineers test and understand what features are working fast.

> [Feature Flags](https://posthog.com/product/feature-flags) are an example of this. Feature Flags help test new features to a subset of users, and they integrate with the rest of your product data. PostHog provides tools to non-engineers to understand Feature Flags, help set them up, and monitor their success. They have more ability to decide the "when, where, and who" of Feature Flags. For you, all you need to add is a single [if statement](https://posthog.com/manual/feature-flags#implementing-the-feature-flag) around the feature. This leaves you more time to implement the feature itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Feature flags](https://posthog.com/product/feature-flags) are an example of this and help you test new features with a subset of users, while integrating with the rest of your product data. PostHog provides tools to help non-engineers understand feature flags, set them up, and monitor their success. They have more ability to decide the "when, where, and who" of feature flags -- all you need to add is a single [if statement](https://posthog.com/manual/feature-flags#implementing-the-feature-flag) around the feature. This leaves engineers more time to implement the feature itself.
```
I'll stop with the casing edits after this in the interest of giving higher-level edits, but we'd need to correct this throughout the article. This is actually mine and Cory's fault, as we haven't updated the style guide to reflect the new decision (see below).

<img width="424" alt="Screenshot 2022-09-02 at 10 59 00" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/84011561/188115289-38f44c92-139e-4235-b428-539e13a74698.png">

Reviewer: PR to fix style guide: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/4124

If features fail, PostHog makes it easy to turn them off. Breaking your flow with urgent work to remove them isn't required. It just requires flipping a switch in PostHog to kill them. This is especially useful for apps that are slower to update (such as app store or extension reviews). These slow updates can take a surprising amount of time, so limiting them is critical to maximizing your useful time.

As an example, the crypto wallet [Phantom](https://posthog.com/customers/phantom) uses PostHog Feature Flags as kill switches for all their features. This is because they can't deploy a new version of their Chrome Extension on demand. Feature Flags give them control of the user experience, limit feature failure, and save time.

> On top of Feature Flags, PostHog includes several other testing tools that are simple for you to set up and easy for non-engineers to use. They include [Session Recording](https://posthog.com/product/session-recording), [Heatmaps](https://posthog.com/product/heatmaps), [Multivariate Testing](https://posthog.com/product/experimentation-suite), and more. These create a positive feedback loop in product decisions that help features get tested faster. The team gets data on the quality of their decision and this helps them improve and speed up the next one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On top of Feature Flags, PostHog includes several other testing tools that are simple for you to set up and easy for non-engineers to use. They include [Session Recording](/product/session-recording), [Heatmaps](/product/heatmaps), [Multivariate Testing](/product/experimentation-suite), and more. These create a positive feedback loop in product decisions that help features get tested faster. The team gets data on the quality of their decision and this helps them improve and speed up the next one.
```
Relative paths = better. Again, this would need to be applied consistently and won't keep flagging it.

## Simple, customizable data ingestion

When implementing Product Analytics, many services require significant work to implement and customize. They often require writing detailed requests in your app and ensuring they are handled properly in your analytics platform. PostHog makes it simple to capture events and gain data on usage. At its [simplest](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate), it requires either a one-line [snippet](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate#snippet) or an API request with the wanted data object.

> You don't need to spend time implementing a library for sending those API requests because we've already built them. We have [libraries](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate#libraries) in client and server languages like Javascript, Python, and Ruby. As well, we have several integrated ingestion [apps](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate#apps) like Amazon Kinesis, Shopify, and Zapier. This doesn't prevent you from implementing your own library with our API but saves you time if you need it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't need to spend time implementing a library for sending those API requests because we've already built them. We have [libraries](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate#libraries) in client and server languages such as Javascript, Python, and Ruby. As well, we have several integrated ingestion [apps](https://posthog.com/docs/integrate#apps) such as Amazon Kinesis, Shopify, and Zapier. This doesn't prevent you from implementing your own library with our API but saves you time if you need it.
```

The libraries aren't _like_ Javascript; Javascript _is_ one of the libraries. I'm that sort of editor.

We automatically capture data from wherever it is sent. No need to do elaborate configurations of each instance. You won't have to read through pages of documentation to understand how to capture an event correctly. Within PostHog, the data can be sliced, filtered, modified, and analyzed. The people who care more about the data (like the ones making product decisions) can analyze it how they like. This saves you time on implementation and customization.

> PostHog helps companies capture more data faster. For example, [Saga](https://posthog.com/customers/saga)found that PostHog saw 40-50% more events than Mixpanel because of self-hosting. We also managed to track 20-30% more users. By capturing more data, decisions are made faster and more accurately. This helped Saga find a missing step in their tutorials, leading to increased retention of 70-80%. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog helps companies capture more data faster. For example, [Saga](https://posthog.com/customers/saga) found that PostHog captured 40-50% more events than Mixpanel because a self-hosted deployment of PostHog avoids reliance on frequently blocked third-party cookies. We also managed to track 20-30% more users. By capturing more data, decisions are made faster and more accurately. This helped Saga find a missing step in their tutorials, leading to increased retention of 70-80%. 
```

Important to be specific on this point, so it can't be read with the opposite meaning.
